hey everyone right university of the
science is here to Philadelphia I'm
Lorne Harvey this private school is a
leader in health sciences and research
that's this office - university of the
sciences is located on the west side of
downtown philadelphia university city
only minutes from the historic areas
like Independence Hall the Liberty Bell
and the Constitution Center cities
interesting very different from where I
grew up and you know I like the
difference there's always something to
do Oh going over the center city so it's
always entertaining University of the
scientists campus comprises 17 buildings
located on a 35 acres site that includes
a quad with lots of green space a new
state-of-the-art science and student
facilities the neat thing about this
university is its ability to be a small
school so that there's a lot of
interaction with undergraduate students
with the faculty and the staff but still
maintain that high rigorous scientific
discipline and scientific focus that we
do so well here University of the
sciences has a total enrollment of about
three thousand thirty nine percent male
and sixty-one percent female and forty
three percent
ethnically diverse students the student
to faculty ratio is 13 to one with an
average class size of 26 you know on
face value the students or just like any
other college student but the difference
here is students have an interest in
going to a health profession they become
we going to come medical doctors
pharmacists physical therapists
physician assistants occupational
therapists researchers so that's the
common thread that runs through the
entire campus they really go beyond the
normal college students in terms of what
they're doing in their careers and where
they want to go because they really want
to get into a career where they're
helping somebody live a longer and
healthier life the majority of major
University of the sciences generally
consider students with a GPA of 3.0 or
better a minimum SAT 1000 or 22 on the
AC t-- students are selected on the
basis of their high school academic
record that's about two-thirds of the
decisions
the rigor the types of courses question
the areas of science master English
that's that comprises two-thirds of our
decisions the other third will be SAT or
a CT the University of the sciences is a
private university yearly tuition cost
roughly $27,000 for all students and
room and board are an additional 11
thousand dollars a year worried about
the big exam well it's joined the
students living President Lincoln's
right foot to good luck the bronze
statue is one of three originals made by
Chester French the famous sculptor of
the Lincoln Memorial in Washington DC
the university offers 23 undergraduate
majors including a forensic science
program 19 graduate degree programs 24
minors and 3 post-baccalaureate
certificates
most students are directly admitted into
their majors so I know incoming 300
students coming into the pharmacy
program as soon as you're admitted into
the program they just continue on in
their program as long as you're in good
academic standing you know we don't get
a lot of undeclared then music students
you're pretty focused they know what
they want there's the opportunity if
they do change their minds or if they go
for processing switch majors and a lot
of the programs in the first two years
have similar curriculum so they're not
going to be losing a lot of credits if
they do decide to switch one to another
the top three popular majors prepare
students for healthcare careers in
pharmacy physical therapy and biology
university of the sciences is home of
the nation's first pharmacy college
founded in 1821
it was the founders of six of the top
pharmaceutical companies in the world
launched their futures basically I chose
USB because they have a 0-6 program
which basically means that I will be I
will progress on to my professional
years in pharmacy without having to take
decaf as long as I maintain a certain
required GPA USP employs 161 full-time
faculty members and nearly all have
their PhD or other doctoral degree many
professors engage in exciting research
like drug discovery or delivery to the
medicinal qualities of rare African
plants professors are always available
for one of the good things about this
campus always available office hours if
you can't make office eyes you always
have a phone to call them I know I broke
my professors all the power for health
or anything like that
the Devils compete in NCAA Division two
intercollegiate athletic programs school
threat is wonderful we always have
activities going on organizations always
sponsor and get-togethers and pizza
parties and I know like first month of
campus here like Midnight Madness and
it's a school spirit games you know eat
on or everything I said campus residents
vary from traditional to apartment-style
housing there are 43 student life
organizations on campus and 14 Greek
brother and sisterhood there's a strong
emphasis on student centered learning if
we think of different learning
activities we can just figure out a way
to try it I like the creativity I like a
different approach to learning I like to
hand sew on a press and I like to focus
on community based practice that a lot
of the people in my department have
Weatherby tip their ways everybody's
willing to think that new ideas and talk
about it and the students have come up
with great ideas that we've been able to
implement in our classes which is been
wonderful you will see alumni have many
contributions
nearly every aspect of Health Sciences
the shale Fontana invented by Romney
it's a device that helps physical
therapy patients recover with a knee
replacement and they're going to - the
students in the program which I teach
from a simple marketing management they
get snapped up by top pharmaceutical
friends Pfizer change a mark in book
Whitney graduated passionate of our
research did for a career in healthcare
feeling devilish get ready to discover
University of Sciences in Philadelphia
that's it for us hope you enjoyed your
exclusive tour of University of
scientists make sure to join us next
time the university TV I'm LaVon go
Devils